To check whether a user tries to edit or delete a post which does not belong to him, we should go to
on the node, rest
API project, we should go to our feed controller and there, find our update and delete methods of
course.
Let's start with updating a post. In there,
we find a post by ID which is all right of course and we should keep in mind that for a post, the creator
will be the ID of the user who created that.
So even if we do have a post here, we want to check whether that creator ID is equal to the ID of the currently
logged in user so of the ID that belongs to the token we received.
So here I'll check if post creator is equal to, excuse me, creator toString to convert this to a string, is
equal to request
user ID, so to the user ID I got from my token. If that is equal, I'm allowed to continue, if it is not equal
hence we need a exclamation mark here,
I'll throw an error. So here I'll create a new error,
not authorized,
set the status code to 403 which is a good status code for authorization issues
and I'll throw that error.
Now if I save that, let's check that,
first of all let's delete a post which we are allowed to delete,
like that duck.
If I delete that, now deleting obviously works because we never added any logic to prevent this.
Now let me logout and create a new user,
we need a different email address,
well let's first of all try the same one,
it should fail so here I'll just use Max and it fails.
Now let's use an unused e-mail address and it succeeds,
let's now login with that newly created user,
now let's try editing because that is where we did add protection, the cup which was not created by that
user. This failed with a 403 error,
let's now login with the user who did create it and let's now try editing with this user and this now
succeeds.
So now we have this first check in place.
Let's now also add it to our delete post logic there. There
I find my post at the beginning and before we continue, here I basically want to implement that same
check.
I'll check the creator which is the ID of the user and compare it to the user ID extracted from the
token and if they're not equal, I will throw an error,
so now only authorized users should be able to delete the post of course.
Make sure to do that before you clear the image.
Now after saving this, let's go back and delete this and it succeeds because this was the right user.
Let's logout, let's login with this user let's say
and create a new post, a duck
with the image and some content and let's logout and login with the other user, the user who did
not create it and let's delete that there and you see that fails.
Now I didn't implement an error message there
and of course you could also tweak the frontend to not even show these buttons if you're not allowed
to edit
but my idea here is to show you how you can protect this on the backend
since of course this is a node course.
Therefore I deliberately let you do that so that you can see that we can prevent this on the backend
and indeed we can't delete this now
with the wrong user.